XLS-38d: XChainBridge (side chains) (#4292)
XRPLF/rippled: docs/bridge/spec.md

ledgers: a locking-chain and an issuing-chain (some people call these a
mainchain and a sidechain, but in some cases the terminology can be confusing).
Both are independent ledgers. They have their own validators and can have their
own set of custom transactions. Importantly, there is a way to move assets from
the locking-chain to the issuing-chain and there is a way to return those assets
from the issuing-chain to the locking-chain. This key operation is called a
cross-chain transfer. A cross-chain transfer is not a single transaction. It
happens on two chains, requires multiple transactions and involves an additional
server type called a "witness". This key operation is described in a section
below.

This bridge does not exchange assets between two ledger - instead it locks
assets on one ledger (the locking-chain) and represents those assets with
wrapped assets on another chain (the issuing-chain). A good model to keep in
mind is a box with in infinite supply of wrapped assets. Putting an asset from
the locking chain into the box will release a wrapped asset onto the issuing
chain. Putting a wrapped asset from the issuing chain back into the box will

> release one of the exiting locking-chain assets back onto the locking chain.

Author: Fixed in 91de824b2 [FOLD] Address PR feedback 1:

presented as a reference.

## Nomenclature

Cross-chain transfer: A transaction that moves assets from the locking-chain to
the issuing-chain, or returns those assets from the issuing-chain back to the
locking-chain.

Claim ID: A ledger object used to prove ownership of the funds moved in a
cross-chain transfer.

Account-create ordering number: A counter on the door accounts used to order the
account create transactions.

Door accounts: The account on the locking-chain that is used to put assets into
trust, or the account on the issuing-chain used to issue wrapped assets. The name
comes from the idea that a door is used to move from one room to another and a
door account is used to move assets from one chain to another.

Locking-chain: Where the assets originate and are put into trust.

Issuing-chain: Where the assets from the locking-chain are wrapped.

Witness server: A server that listens for transactions on one or both of the
chains and signs attestations used to prove that certain events happened on a
chain.

## List of new transactions

- XChainCreateBridge
- XChainModifyBridge
- XChainCreateClaimID
- XChainCommit
- XChainClaim

> - XChainCreateAccountCommit

Reviewer: This was renamed to `XChainAccountCreateCommit`.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

> XChainAddAttestation

Author: Fixed in 91de824b2 [FOLD] Address PR feedback 1:

> - XChainAddAttestation

Reviewer: This is currently renamed to `XChainAddClainAttestation`.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

## List of new ledger objects

- Bridge

> - XChainClaimID

Author: Resolved in d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

> XChainCreateAccountClaimState

Author: Fixed in 91de824b2 [FOLD] Address PR feedback 1:

> - XChainCreateAccountClaimState

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

## Cross-chain transfers overview

A cross-chain transfer moves assets from the locking-chain to the issuing-chain
or returns those assets from the issuing-chain back to the locking-chain.

> Cross-chain transfers need a couple primitives:

Author: The spec is obselete. I should have removed it. I did so in `d10653757f [fold] Remove obsolete spec` (The current up to date spec is currently going through discussions on the XRPL repo. Thanks for taking the time to re-review the spec (and sorry for not deleting it earlier). I'm going to mark the "spec" comments as "resolved" if that's OK with you.

> Cross-chain transfers need a couple primitives:

Reviewer: Gah.  Yes, you should mark them as resolved.  But I burned a bunch of (now pointless) time on that part of the review.  Sigh.

wrap or unlock assets once.

In this implementation, a regular XRP ledger account is used to put assets into
trust on the locking-chain, and a regular XRP ledger account is used to issue
assets on the issuing-chain. These accounts will have their master keys disabled
and funds will move from these accounts through a new set of transactions
specifically meant for cross-chain transfers. A special set of "witness servers"
are used to prove that assets were put into trust on the locking-chain or
returned on the issuing-chain. A new ledger object called a "xchain claim id" is
used to prevent transaction replay.

A source chain is the chain where the cross-chain transfer starts - by either
putting assets into trust on the locking-chain or returning wrapped assets on
the issuing-chain. The steps for moving funds from a source chain to a
destination chain are:

1) On the destination chain, an account submits a transaction that adds a ledger
   object called a "xchain claim id" that will be used to identify the
   initiating transaction and prevent the initiating transaction from being
   claimed on the destination chain more than once. This transaction will

>    include a signature reward amount, in XRP. Rewards amounts much match the

Author: Fixed in 91de824b2 [FOLD] Address PR feedback 1:

   transaction. See the section below for what fields are present in the new
   "bridge" ledger object and "xchain claim id" ledger object. The actual number
   must be retrieved from the transaction metadata on a validated ledger.
   
2) On the source chain, an initiating transaction is sent from a source account.
   This transaction will include the amount to transfer, bridge spec, "xchain
   claim id" from step (1), and an optional destination account on the
   destination chain. The asset being transferred cross-chain will be
   transferred from the source account to the door account.
   
3) When a witness server sees a new cross-chain transaction, it submits a
   transaction on the destination chain that adds a signature attesting to the
   cross-chain transaction. This will include the amount being transferred
   cross-chain, the account to send the signature reward to on the destination
   chain, the bridge spec, the sending account, and the optional destination
   account. These signatures will be accumulated on the "xchain claim id" object
   on the destination chain. The keys used in these signatures must match the
   keys on the multi-signers list on the door account.

> 4) When a quorum of signatures have been collected, the cross-chain funds can be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4) When a quorum of signatures have been collected, the cross-chain transfer's funds may be
```
nit: Could be more specific

Author: Thanks @wojake. This spec is out of date. I removed it from the patch. The new spec will be folded in after the discussion on the XRPL repo.

Author: If you don't mind, I'm going to close this as resolved, but if you'd like to reopen to discuss further I don't object.

   claimed on the destination chain. If a destination account was specified in
   the initiating transaction on the source chain, the funds will move when the
   transaction that adds the last required witness signature is executed (the
   signature that made the quorum). On success, the "chain claim id" object is
   removed and the signature rewards are paid (see step 6). If there is an error
   (for example, the destination has deposit auth set) or the optional
   destination account was not specified, a "cross-chain claim" transaction must
   be used. Note, if the signers list on the door account changes while the
   signatures are collected, the signers list at the time the quorum is reached
   is controlling. When the quorum is reached, the signing keys will be checked
   against the current signers list, and if a collected signature's key is no
   longer on that list it is removed and signatures will continue to be
   collected.
   
5) On the destination chain, the the owner of the "xchain claim id" (see 1) can
   submit a "cross chain claim" transaction that includes the chain sequence

>    number", the bridge spec, and a destination. The "cross "xchain claim id"

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

   witness servers for this to succeed. On success, a payment is made from the
   door account to the specified destination, signature rewards are distributed
   (see step 6), and the "xchain claim id" is deleted. A "cross chain claim"
   transaction can only succeed once, as the "xchain claim id" for that
   transaction can only be created once. In case of error, the funds can be sent
   to an alternate account and eventually returned to the initiating account.
   Note that this transaction is only used if the optional destination account
   is not specified in step (2) or there is an error when sending funds to that
   destination account.
   
6) When funds are successfully claimed on the destination chain, the reward pool
   is distributed to the signature providers. The rewards will be transferred to
   the destination addresses specified in the messages the witnesses sign. These
   accounts are on the destination chain. (Note: the witness servers specify
   where the rewards for its signature goes, this is not specified on the
   bridge ledger object).
   
The cross-chain transfer is now complete. Note that the transactions sent by the

> witness servers that add their signatures may send signatures in a batch.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

## Supporting transactions overview

In addition to the transactions used in a cross-chain transfer (described
above), there are new transactions for creating a bridge, changing bridge
parameters, and for using a cross-chain transfer to create a new account on the
destination chain.

The `XChainCreateBridge` transaction adds a "bridge" ledger object to the
account. This contains the two door accounts (one of which must be the same as
the sender of this transaction), the asset type that will be put into trust on
the locking-chain, the wrapped asset type on the issuing-chain, and the reward pool
amount in XRP. Optional, the minimum amount of XRP needed for an "account
create" transaction for the locking-chain, the minimum amount of XRP needed for
an "account create" transaction for the issuing-chain may be specified (only if this
is an XRP to XRP bridge). If the amount is not specified, the
`XChainCreateAccountCommit` (see below) will be disabled for this bridge.

> Currently, this ledger object can never be deleted (tho this my change) and

Author: Fixed in 91de824b2 [FOLD] Address PR feedback 1:

specified, and this transaction will only work for XRP to XRP bridges. The
XRP amount must be greater than or equal to the min creation amount specified in
the bridge ledger object. If this optional amount is not present, the
transaction will fail. Once this transaction is submitted, it works similarly to
a cross-chain transfer, except the signatures are collected on a
`XChainCreateAccountClaimState` ledger object on the door account. If the
account already exists, the transaction will attempt to transfer the funds to
the existing account. To prevent transaction replay, the transactions that
create the accounts on the destination chain must execute in the same relative
order as the the initiating `XChainCreateAccountCommit` transactions on the
source chain. This transaction ordering requirement means this transaction
should only be enabled where an account can not inadvertently (or maliciously)
block subsequent transactions by failing to deliver signatures. If the witness
servers themselves submit the signatures, they are already trusted not to be
malicious and are designed to reliably submit the required signatures.

> The `XChainAddAttestation` transaction is used to by witness servers (or accounts

Author: Fixed in 91de824b2 [FOLD] Address PR feedback 1:

that use witness servers) to add a witness's attestation that some event
happened.

There is also a `XChainModifyBridge` transaction used to change new account
creation amounts and the reward amounts. Note: if the reward amount changes

> between the time a transaction is initiated the time the reward is collected,

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

add their attestation that the event happened. When a quorum of signatures are
collected on the ledger, the transaction predicated on that event happening is
unlocked (and may be triggered automatically when the quorum of signatures is
reached). Witness servers are independent from the servers that run the chains
themselves.

It is possible for a witness server to provide attestations for one chain only -
and it is possible for the door account on the locking-chain to have a different
signer's list than the door account on the issuing-chain. The initial
implementation of the witness server assumes it is providing attestation for
both chains, however it is desirable to allow witness servers that only know
about one of the chains.

The current design envisions two models for how witness servers are used. In the
first model, the servers are completely private. They submit transactions to the
chains themselves and collect the rewards themselves. Allowing the servers to be
private has the advantage of greatly reducing the attack surface on these
servers. They won't have to deal with adversarial input to their RPC commands,

> and since their ip address will be unknown, it will be hard to mount an DOS

Author: Fixed in 91de824b2 [FOLD] Address PR feedback 1:

attack.

In the second model, the witness server monitors events on a chain, but does not
submit their signatures themselves. Instead, another party will pay the witness
server for their signature (for example, through a subscription fee), and the
witness server allows that party to collect the signer's reward. The account
that the signer's reward goes to is part of the message that the witness server
signs. In this model, it is likely that the witness server only listens to
events on one chain. This model allows for a single witness server to act as a
witness for multiple bridges (tho only one side of the bridge).

As a side note, since submitting a signature requires submitting a transaction
and paying a fee, supporting rewards for signatures is an important requirement.

> Of course, the reward can be higher than the fee, providing an incentive to

Author: Fixed in 91de824b2 [FOLD] Address PR feedback 1:

ledger object could contain a signer's list that's independent from the door
account. The reasons for using the door account's signers list are:

1) The bridge signers list can be used to move funds from the account.
   Putting this list on the door account emphasizes this trust model.
   
2) It allows for emergency action. If something goes very, very wrong, funds
   could still be moved if the entities on the signer's list sign a regular
   transaction.

3) If the door account has multiple bridges, a strange use-case, but one that
   is currently supported. If the bridges share a common asset type, the trust
   model is the union of the signer's list. Keeping the signer's list on the
   account makes this explicit.

4) It's a more natural way to modify bridge parameters.

## Setting up an issuing-chain

Setting up an issuing-chain requires the following:

1) Create a new account for the door account (or use the root account - this can
   be useful for issuing-chains). Note, that while more than one bridge on a
   door account is supported, is it discouraged.

2) If necessary, setup the trust lines needed for IOUs.

3) Create the bridge ledger object on each door account.

> 4) If this is an XRP to XRP bridge, use a `AccountCreate`

Author: Fixed in 91de824b2 [FOLD] Address PR feedback 1:

transaction to create accounts for the signature rewards and accounts for the
witness servers to submit transactions from (they may be the same account). Use
the door account's master key to add witness signatures for this bootstrap

> transaction.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

`XChainCommit` for a smaller amount. This attack doesn't steal funds,
but it does result in the original sender losing their funds. To prevent this,
when a `XChainClaimID` is created on the destination chain, the account that
will send the `XChainCommit` on the source chain must be specified.
Only the witnesses from this transaction will be accepted on the
`XChainClaimID`.

## Error Handling

Error handling cross-chain transfers is straight forward. The "xchain claim id"
is only destroyed when a claim succeeds. If it fails for any reason - for
example the destination account doesn't exist or has deposit auth set - then an
explicit `XChainClaim` transaction may be submitted to redirect the funds.

If a cross-chain account create fails, recovering the funds are outside the
rules of the bridge system. Assume the funds are lost (the only way to
recover them would be if the witness servers created a transaction themselves.
But this is unlikely to happen and should not be relied upon.) The "Minimum
account create" amount is meant to prevent these transactions from failing. 

If the signature reward cannot be delivered to the specified account, that portion

> of the signature reward is kept by the account the owns the claim id.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

## Trust Assumptions

The witness servers are trusted, and if a quorum of them collude they can steal
funds from the door account.

## Ledger Objects

### STXChainBridge

Many of the ledger objects and transactions contain a `STXChainBridge` object. These
are the parameters that define a bridge. It contains the following fields:

* lockingChainDoor: `AccountID` of the door account on the locking-chain. This account
  will hold assets in trust while they are used on the issuing-chain.
    
* lockingChainIssue: `Issue` of the asset put into trust on the locking-chain.

* issuingChainDoor: `AccountID` of the door account on the issuing-chain. This account
  will issue wrapped assets representing assets put into trust on the locking-chain.
    
* issuingChainIssue: `Issue` of the asset used to represent assets from the locking-chain.

> Note: There are several constraints that must be met for a bridge to be valid.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

* `lockingChainDoor` and `issuingChainDoor` must be distinct accounts. This is
  done to help prevent transaction replay attacks.

> * `lockingChainIssue` and `issuingChainIssue` must both XRP or both be IOUs.

Author: Fixed in 91de824b2 [FOLD] Address PR feedback 1:

  This is done because the exchange rate is fixed at 1:1, and IOUs and XRP have
  a different numeric range and precision. This requirement may be relaxed in
  the future.
  
* If the `issuingChainIssue` is an IOU, the issuingChainDoor must be the issuer.

>   This is done so wrapping transactions done fail because the door account

Author: Fixed in 91de824b2 [FOLD] Address PR feedback 1:

  doesn't have a sufficient balance.
  
* If the `issuingChainIssue` is XRP, the issuingChainDoor must be the genesis
  account (which holds all the XRP on the issuing chain). This is done so
  wrapping transactions done fail because the door account doesn't have a

>   sufficient balance.

Author: The private key on the genesis account is well know, but that key will be disabled. Transferring all the funds out of the genesis account is not supported.

A snippet of the data for C++ class for an `STXChainBridge` is:

```c++
class STXChainBridge final : public STBase
{

    STAccount lockingChainDoor_{sfLockingChainDoor};
    STIssue lockingChainIssue_{sfLockingChainIssue};
    STAccount issuingChainDoor_{sfIssuingChainDoor};
    STIssue issuingChainIssue_{sfIssuingChainIssue};
}
```

### Bridge

The bridge ledger object is owned by the door account and defines the bridge
parameters. Note, the signatures used to attest to chain events are on the claim
id ledger objects, not on this ledger object. It is created with a
`XChainCreateBridge` transaction, modified with a `XChainModifyBridge`
transaction (only the `MinAccountCreateAmount` and `SignaturesReward` may be
changed). It cannot be deleted.

#### Fields

The ledger object contains the following fields:

* Account: The account that owns this object. The door account. Required.

> * SignaturesReward: Total amount, in XRP, to be rewarded for providing

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

  signatures for a cross-chain transfer or for signing for the cross-chain
  reward. This will be split among the signers. Required.

* MinAccountCreateAmount: Minimum Amount, in XRP, required for an
  `XChainCreateAccountCommit` transaction. If this is not present, the
  `XChainCreateAccountCommit` will fail. May only be present on XRP to XRP
  bridges. Optional.

> * Bridge: Door accounts and assets. See `STXChainBridge` above. Required.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

* XChainClaimID: A counter used to assign unique "chain claim id"s
  in the `XChainCreateClaimID` transaction. Required.
  
* XChainAccountCreateCount: A counter used to order the execution of account
  create transactions. It is incremented every time a successful
  `XChainAccountCreate` transaction is run for the source chain.

* XChainAccountClaimCount: A counter used to order the execution of account
  create transactions. It is incremented every time an `XChainAccountCreate`
  transaction is "claimed" on the destination chain. When the "claim"
  transaction is run on the destination chain, the `XChainAccountClaimCount`
  must match the value that the `XChainAccountCreateCount` had at the time the

>   `XChainAccountClaimCount` was run on the source chain. This orders the claims

Author: Fixed in 72b49d5f9 remove batch in unit tests

  to run in the same order that the `XChainAccountCreate` transactions ran on

>   the source chain and prevents transaction replay.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

The c++ code for this ledger object format is:
```c++
    add(jss::Bridge,
        ltBRIDGE,
        {
            {sfAccount,                  soeREQUIRED},
            {sfSignatureReward,          soeREQUIRED},
            {sfMinAccountCreateAmount,   soeOPTIONAL},
            {sfXChainBridge,             soeREQUIRED},
            {sfXChainClaimID,            soeREQUIRED},
            {sfXChainAccountCreateCount, soeREQUIRED},
            {sfXChainAccountClaimCount,  soeREQUIRED},
            {sfOwnerNode,                soeREQUIRED},
            {sfPreviousTxnID,            soeREQUIRED},
            {sfPreviousTxnLgrSeq,        soeREQUIRED}
        },
        commonFields);
```

#### Ledger ID

> The ledger id is a hash of a unique prefix for bridge object, and the fields

Author: Fixed in 91de824b2 [FOLD] Address PR feedback 1: (called it a "ledger index)

in `STXChainBridge`. The C++ code for this is:

```c++
Keylet
bridge(STXChainBridge const& bridge)
{
    return {
        ltBRIDGE,
        indexHash(
            LedgerNameSpace::BRIDGE,
            bridge.lockingChainDoor(),
            bridge.lockingChainIssue(),
            bridge.issuingChainDoor(),
            bridge.issuingChainIssue())};
}
```

### XChainClaimID

The "chain claim id" ledger object must be acquired on the destination before
submitting a `XChainCommit` on the source chain. A `XChainCreateClaimID`
transaction is used for this. Its purpose is to prevent transaction replay
attacks and is also used as a place to collect attestations from witness
servers. It is destroyed when the funds are successfully claimed on the
destination chain.

#### Fields

* Account: The account that owns this object. Required.

> * Bridge: Door accounts and assets. See `STXChainBridge` above. Required.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

* XChainClaimID: Integer unique sequence number for a cross-chain transfer.
  Required.

> * SourceAccount: Account that must send the `XChainCommit` on the

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

  other chain. Since the destination may be specified in the
  `XChainCommit` transaction, if the `SourceAccount` wasn't specified
  another account to try to specify a different destination and steal the funds.
  This also allows tracking only a single set of signatures, since we know which
  account will send the `XChainCommit` transaction. Required.

> * ClaimAttestations: Attestations collected from the witness servers. This

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

  includes the parameters needed to recreate the message that was signed,
  including the amount, which chain (locking or issuing), optional destination,
  and reward account for that signature. Required.

> * SignatureRewardsBalance: Amount of XRP currently for rewarding signers. This

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

  is paid by the account that creates this object. It must match the value on
  the bridge ledger object at the time of creation. If the value changes on the
  bridge ledger object, the value at the time of creation is still used as the
  reward. Required. Note this XRP is not locked. If the account does not have
  sufficient balance to pay the reward the cross-chain transfer will fail.

The c++ code for this ledger object format is:
```c++
    add(jss::XChainClaimID,
        ltXCHAIN_CLAIM_ID,
        {
            {sfAccount,                 soeREQUIRED},
            {sfXChainBridge,            soeREQUIRED},
            {sfXChainClaimID,           soeREQUIRED},
            {sfOtherChainSource,        soeREQUIRED},
            {sfXChainClaimAttestations, soeREQUIRED},
            {sfSignatureReward,         soeREQUIRED},
            {sfOwnerNode,               soeREQUIRED},
            {sfPreviousTxnID,           soeREQUIRED},
            {sfPreviousTxnLgrSeq,       soeREQUIRED}
        },
        commonFields);
```
#### Ledger ID

> The ledger id is a hash of a unique prefix for "chain claim id"s, the

Author: Fixed in 91de824b2 [FOLD] Address PR feedback 1: (renamed to "ledger index")

sequence number, and the fields in `STXChainBridge`. The C++ code for this is:

```c++
Keylet
xChainClaimID(STXChainBridge const& bridge, std::uint64_t seq)
{
    return {
        ltXCHAIN_CLAIM_ID,
        indexHash(
            LedgerNameSpace::XCHAIN_SEQ,
            bridge.lockingChainDoor(),
            bridge.lockingChainIssue(),
            bridge.issuingChainDoor(),
            bridge.issuingChainIssue(),
            seq)};
}
```

### XChainCreateAccountClaimState

This ledger object is used to collect signatures for creating an account using a
cross-chain transfer. It is created when an `XChainAddAttestation` transaction
adds a signature attesting to a `XChainAccountCreate` transaction and the
"account create ordering number" is greater than or equal to the current
`XChainAccountClaimCount` on the bridge ledger object.

#### Fields

* Account: Owner of this object. The door account. Required.

> * Bridge: Door accounts and assets. See `STXChainBridge` above. Required.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

> * CreateCount: An integer that determines the order that accounts created

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

  through cross-chain transfers must be performed. Smaller numbers must execute

>   before larger numbers.

Author: We explicitly say if you use this feature users cannot submit the attestations themselves. They *must* be submitted by the witness servers. And the witness servers are trusted. If they are dishonest, then they can do more than just block account creation.

> * Attestations: Attestations collected from the witness servers. This includes the

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

  parameters needed to recreate the message that was signed, including the
  amount, destination, signature reward amount, and reward account for that
  signature. With the exception of the reward account, all signature must sign
  the message created with common parameters.
  

```c++
    add(jss::XChainCreateAccountClaimID,
        ltXCHAIN_CREATE_ACCOUNT_CLAIM_ID,
        {
            {sfAccount,                         soeREQUIRED},
            {sfXChainBridge,                    soeREQUIRED},
            {sfXChainAccountCreateCount,        soeREQUIRED},
            {sfXChainCreateAccountAttestations, soeREQUIRED},
            {sfOwnerNode,                       soeREQUIRED},
            {sfPreviousTxnID,                   soeREQUIRED},
            {sfPreviousTxnLgrSeq,               soeREQUIRED}
        },
        commonFields);
```

#### LedgerID

> The ledger id is a hash of a unique prefix for cross-chain account create

Author: Fixed in 91de824b2 [FOLD] Address PR feedback 1: (renamed to "ledger index")

signatures, the bridge, and the initiating transaction ID.

The ledger index is a hash of a unique prefix for "create account claim id"s, the
sequence number, and the fields in `STXChainBridge`. The C++ code for this is:
```c++
Keylet
xChainCreateAccountClaimID(STXChainBridge const& bridge, std::uint64_t seq)
{
    return {
        ltXCHAIN_CREATE_ACCOUNT_CLAIM_ID,
        indexHash(
            LedgerNameSpace::XCHAIN_CREATE_ACCOUNT_SEQ,
            bridge.lockingChainDoor(),
            bridge.lockingChainIssue(),
            bridge.issuingChainDoor(),
            bridge.issuingChainIssue(),
            seq)};
}
```
## Transactions

### XChainCreateBridge

Attach a new bridge to a door account. Once this is done, the cross-chain
transfer transactions may be used to transfer funds from this account.

#### Fields

The transaction contains the following fields:

> * Bridge: Door accounts and assets. See `STXChainBridge` above. Required.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

> * SignaturesReward: Total amount, in XRP, to be rewarded for providing

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

>   signatures for a cross-chain transfer or for signing for the cross-chain

Author: Fixed in 91de824b2 [FOLD] Address PR feedback 1:

* MinAccountCreateAmount: Minimum Amount, in XRP, required for an
  `XChainCreateAccountCommit` transaction. If this is not present, the
  `XChainCreateAccountCommit` will fail. Only applicable for XRP to XRP
  bridges. Optional.

See notes in the `STXChainBridge` section and the `Bridge` ledger object section for
restrictions on these fields (i.e. door account must be unique, assets must both
be XRP or both be IOU).

```c++
    add(jss::XChainCreateBridge,
        ttXCHAIN_CREATE_BRIDGE,
        {
            {sfXChainBridge, soeREQUIRED},
            {sfSignatureReward, soeREQUIRED},
            {sfMinAccountCreateAmount, soeOPTIONAL},
        },
        commonFields);
```

### XChainCreateClaimID

The first step in a cross-chain transfer. The claim id must be created on the
destination chain before the `XChainCommit` transaction (which must reference
this number) can be sent on the source chain. The account that will send the
`XChainCommit` on the source chain must be specified in this transaction (see
note on the `SourceAccount` field in the `XChainClaimID` ledger object for
justification). The actual sequence number must be retrieved from a validated
ledger.

#### Fields

> * Bridge: Door accounts and assets. See `STXChainBridge` above. Required.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

* OtherChainSource: Account that must send the `XChainCommit` on the other
  chain. Since the destination may be specified in the `XChainCommit`

>   transaction, if the `SourceAccount` wasn't specified another account to try to

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

  specify a different destination and steal the funds. This also allows tracking
  only a single set of signatures, since we know which account will send the
  `XChainCommit` transaction. Required.

> * SignaturesReward: Amount, in XRP, to be used to reward the witness servers for

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

  providing signatures. Must match the amount on the bridge ledger object. This
  could be optional, but it is required so the sender can be made positively
  aware that these funds will be deducted from their account. Required.

```c++
    add(jss::XChainCreateClaimID,
        ttXCHAIN_CREATE_CLAIM_ID,
        {
            {sfXChainBridge, soeREQUIRED},
            {sfSignatureReward, soeREQUIRED},
            {sfOtherChainSource, soeREQUIRED},
        },
        commonFields);
```

### XChainCommit

Put assets into trust on the locking-chain so they may be wrapped on the issuing-chain,
or return wrapped assets on the issuing-chain so they can be unlocked on the
locking-chain. The second step in a cross-chain transfer.

#### Fields

> * Bridge: Door accounts and assets. See `STXChainBridge` above. Required.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

* XChainClaimID: Integer unique id for a cross-chain transfer. Must be acquired
  on the destination chain and checked from a validated ledger before submitting
  this transaction. If an incorrect sequence number is specified, the funds will
  be lost. Required.
  
* Amount: Asset to commit. Must match either the door's LockingChainIssue (if on
  the locking chain) or the door's IssuingChainIssue (if on the Issuing chain).
  

> * OtherChainDestination: Destination account on the other chain. Optional.

Author: There's already a discussion for this here: https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/pull/4292#discussion_r1103703341 There's a TON of comments in this PR. It is OK if I close this (and keep the other one open)? (@scottschurr ) I'll close this now and DM you...

Note: Only the account specified in the `SourceAccount` field of the
`XChainCreateClaimID` transaction should send this transaction. If it is sent
from another account the funds will be lost.

```c++
    add(jss::XChainCommit,
        ttXCHAIN_COMMIT,
        {
            {sfXChainBridge, soeREQUIRED},
            {sfXChainClaimID, soeREQUIRED},
            {sfAmount, soeREQUIRED},
            {sfOtherChainDestination, soeOPTIONAL},
        },
        commonFields);
```

### XChainClaim

Claim funds from a `XChainCommit` transaction. This is normally not needed, but
may be used to handle transaction failures or if the destination account was not
specified in the `XChainCommit` transaction. It may only be used after a quorum
of signatures have been sent from the witness servers.

If the transaction succeeds in moving funds, the referenced `XChainClaimID`
ledger object will be destroyed. This prevents transaction replay. If the
transaction fails, the `XChainClaimID` will not be destroyed and the transaction
may be re-run with different parameters.

#### Fields

> * Bridge: Door accounts and assets. See `STXChainBridge` above. Required.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

* XChainClaimID: Integer unique sequence number that identifies the claim and
  was referenced in the `XChainCommit` transaction.

> * Destination: Destination account on this chain. Must exist on the other chain

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

  or the transaction will fail. However, if the transaction fails in this case,
  the sequence number and collected signatures will not be destroyed and the
  transaction may be rerun with a different destination address.
  
* DestinationTag: Integer destination tag. Optional.
  
* Amount: Amount to claim on the destination chain. Must match the amount
  attested to on the claim id's chain attestations.
  
```c++
    add(jss::XChainClaim,
        ttXCHAIN_CLAIM,
        {
            {sfXChainBridge, soeREQUIRED},
            {sfXChainClaimID, soeREQUIRED},
            {sfDestination, soeREQUIRED},
            {sfDestinationTag, soeOPTIONAL},
            {sfAmount, soeREQUIRED},
        },
        commonFields);
```

> ### XChainCreateAccountCommit

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

"chain claim id" is to prevent transaction replay. For this transaction, we use
a different mechanism: the accounts must be claimed on the destination chain in
the same order that the `XChainCreateAccountCommit` transactions occurred on the
source chain.

This transaction can only be used for XRP to XRP bridges.

IMPORTANT: This transaction should only be enabled if the witness attestations
will be reliably delivered to the destination chain. If the signatures are not
delivered (for example, the chain relies on use accounts to collect signatures)
then account creation would be blocked for all transactions that happened after
the one waiting on attestations. This could be used maliciously. To disable this
transaction on XRP to XRP bridges, the bridge's `MinAccountCreateAmount` should
not be present.

Note: If this account already exists, the XRP is transferred to the existing
account. However, note that unlike the `XChainCommit` transaction, there is no
error handling mechanism. If the claim transaction fails, there is no mechanism
for refunds. The funds are permanently lost. This transaction should still only
be used for account creation.

#### Fields

> * Bridge: Door accounts and assets. See `STXChainBridge` above. Required.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

* Destination: Destination account on the other chain. Required.
  
* Amount: Amount, in XRP, to use for account creation. Must be greater than or
  equal to the amount specified in the bridge ledger object. Required.
  
* SignaturesReward: Amount, in XRP, to be used to reward the witness servers for
  providing signatures. Must match the amount on the bridge ledger object.
  This could be optional, but it is required so the sender can be made
  positively aware that these funds will be deducted from their account.
  Required.

```c++
    add(jss::XChainAccountCreateCommit,
        ttXCHAIN_ACCOUNT_CREATE_COMMIT,
        {
            {sfXChainBridge, soeREQUIRED},
            {sfDestination, soeREQUIRED},
            {sfAmount, soeREQUIRED},
            {sfSignatureReward, soeREQUIRED},
        },
        commonFields);
```

> ### XChainAddAttestation

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

Provide attestations from witness server (or servers) attesting to events on the
other chain. The signatures must be from one of the keys on the door's signer's
list at the time the signature was provided. However, if the signature list
changes between the time the signature was submitted and the quorum is reached,
the new signature set is used and some of the currently collected signatures may
be removed. Also note the reward is only sent to accounts that have keys on the

> current list.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

To help with transaction throughput and to minimize fees, attestations can be
submitted in batch. If any attestation is added, the transaction succeeds. The

> metadata must be used to find out which specific attestations succeeded.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

Note that any account can submit signatures. This is important to support
witness servers that work on the "subscription" model.

> An attestation bears witness to a particular event on the other chain. The common fields are:

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

> * Bridge: Door accounts and assets. See `STXChainBridge` above. Required.

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

* CreateCount: Order that the claims must be processed in.
* RewardAmount: Signature reward for this event.
  
Note a quorum of signers need to agree on the `SignatureReward`, the same way
they need to agree on the other data. A single witness server cannot provide an
incorrect value for this in an attempt to collect a larger reward.

To add a witness to a `XChainClaimID`, that ledger object must already exist.
If the `XChainCreateAccountClaimState` does not already exist, and the ordering
number is greater than the current ordering number, it will be created.

Since `XChainCreateAccountClaimState` are ordered, it's possible for this object
to collect a quorum of signatures but not be able to execute yet. For this
reason an empty signature may be sent to an `XChainCreateAccountClaimState` and
if it already has a quorum of signatures it will execute. The witness servers
will detect when this needs to happen.

#### Fields

* AttestationBatch. A collection of claim and create account attestations.

```c++
    add(jss::XChainAddAttestation,
        ttXCHAIN_ADD_ATTESTATION,
        {
            {sfXChainAttestationBatch, soeREQUIRED},
        },
        commonFields);
```

> 

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

### XChainModifyBridge

Change the `SignaturesReward` field or the `MinAccountCreateAmount` on the
bridge object. Note that this is a regular transaction that is sent by the
door account and requires the entities that control the witness servers to
co-operate and provide the signatures for this transaction. This happens outside
the ledger.

The `SignaturesReward` and `MinAccountCreateAmount` of a transaction are the
values that were in effect at the time the transaction was submitted.

Note that the signer's list for the bridge is not modified through this
transaction. The signer's list is on the door account itself and is changed in
the same way signer's lists are changed on accounts.

#### Fields

The transaction contains the following fields:

* Bridge: Door accounts and assets. See `STXChainBridge` above. Required.

> * SignaturesReward: Total amount, in XRP, to be rewarded for providing

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`

>   signatures for a cross-chain transfer or for signing for the cross-chain

Author: Fixed in 91de824b2 [FOLD] Address PR feedback 1:

  removed from the ledger object. Optional
  
At least one of `SignaturesReward` and `MinAccountCreateAmount` must be present.

```c++
    add(jss::XChainModifyBridge,
        ttXCHAIN_MODIFY_BRIDGE,
        {
            {sfXChainBridge, soeREQUIRED},
            {sfSignatureReward, soeOPTIONAL},
            {sfMinAccountCreateAmount, soeOPTIONAL},
        },
        commonFields);
```

## Extensions

The `XChainCreateAccountCommit` transaction can be extended to provide a
refund on the source chain when the transaction fails on the destination chain.
The idea is similar to a `XChainAccountCreate` transaction. It would be to
increment the `XChainAccountCreateCount` on the destination chain, and the
transaction would have to be ordered on the source chain. This could be
introduced with an amendment at a later time.

## Alternate designs

One alternate design that was implemented was a set of servers similar to the
witness servers called "federators". These servers communicated among
themselves, collected signatures needed to submit transactions on behalf of the
door accounts directly, and submitted those transactions. This design is

> attractive from a usability point of view. There is not "cross-chain sequence

Author: d10653757f `[fold] Remove obsolete spec`
